PROJECT NAME`
Virtual Telephone Directory

INTERFACE TYPE
Command User Interface

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This project creates a telephone directory in memory. 
Following details are stored
1. Name
2. Phone number

The information is stored and managed using the data Structure - Doubly circular linked list.
Each node of a doubly circular linked list stores:
1. Pointer to object storing contact details
2. Forward Pointer
3. Backward Pointer

OPERATIONS SUPPORTED
Following operations are supported
1. Insert new record at start
Insert a new record at the beginning of the list
2. Insert new record at end
Insert a new record at the end of the list
3. Insert record before existing record
Insert a new record before a specified existing record. Display proper error message if the record does not exist
4. Insert record after existing record
Insert a new record after a specified existing record. Display proper error message if the record does not exist
5. Read first record
Display the first record in the list. Display proper error message if the list is empty
6. Read last record
Display the last record in the list. Display proper error message if the list is empty
7. Pop first record
Display the first record and also delete it. Display proper error message if the list is empty
8. Pop last record
Display the last record and also delete it. Display proper error message if the list is empty
9. Remove first record
Delete the first record from the list. Display proper error message if the list is empty
10. Remove last record
Remove the last record from the list. Display proper error message if the list is empty
11. Remove specific record
Remove a record from the list.Display proper error message if the record does not exist
12. Search record
Search a record by name and display the record if it exists
13. Search record
Search a record by phone number and display the record if it exists
14. Show telephone directory
Display all the records
15. Count records
Counts and displays total number of records
